---
title: "Simple Regression Analysis"
author: "Yingying Ji"
date: "2019/03/25"
output:
  html_document:
    df_print: paged
  pdf_document: default
---



## Introduction

The goal of this report is making empirical analysis of real data in R language, using different regression functions we have studied in class: **linear regression**, **logarithms in regression** and **polynomial regression**.

## Data Description

The data file contains the data for 2008 (from the March 2009 "Current Population Survey" by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the U.S. Department of Labor). These data are for full-time workers, defined as workers employed more than 35 hours per week for at least 48 weeks in the previous year, age 25-34, with a high school diploma or a bachelor's degree as their highest degree. [^footnote]

[^footnote]:The data are from [_**Student Resources of Introductin To Econometrics**_](https://wps.pearsoned.com/aw_stock_ie_3/178/45691/11696965.cw/index.html).

Series Name in Data Set| Interpretion
------------------|------------------------
FEMALE|1 if female; 0 if male
YEAR|Year
AHE|Average Hourly Earnings
BACHELOR|1 if worker has a bachelor's degree; 0 if worker has a high school degree

## Empirical Analysis

In this part, I will make simple analysis about the relationship between a worker's age and earnings, using different regression functions.

### Simple Linear Regression

* Regression Function 1

\[
AHE=\alpha+\beta_1age+\beta_2female+\beta_3bachelor+e
\]

```{r}
rm(list=ls())
#import data
data<-read.csv("C:/Users/15068/Desktop/Microeconometrics/HW2/dataforhw2.csv",header = T)
reg1=lm(ahe~age+female+bachelor,data=data)
summary(reg1)
```

* Result: As the regression results show, if $Age$ increases 1 unit, average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by $0.5852.

### Log-Linear Regression

* Regression Function 2

\[
\ln(AHE)=\alpha+\beta_1age+\beta_2female+\beta_3bachelor+e
\]

```{r}
reg2=lm(log(ahe)~age+female+bachelor,data=data)
summary(reg2)
```

* Result: As the regression results show, if $Age$ increases 1 unit, $\ln(AHE)$ is predicted to increase by 0.0273, which means that average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by 2.73%.

### Log-Log Regression

* Regression Function 3

\[
\ln(AHE)=\alpha+\beta_1\ln(age)+\beta_2female+\beta_3bachelor+e
\]

```{r}
reg3=lm(log(ahe)~log(age)+female+bachelor,data=data)
summary(reg3)
```

* Result: Since it's log-log function, case becomes different. If $Age$ increases 1 unit, average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by different amount. If $Age$ increases from $x$ to $x+1$, then $\ln(AHE)$ increases by $\ln(x+1)-\ln(x)$. The predicted increase in $\ln(AHE)$ is $0.804*(\ln(x+1)-\ln(x))$. This means that average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by $0.804*(\ln(x+1)-\ln(x))*100$%.

### Polynomial Regression

* Regression Function 4

\[
\ln(AHE)=\alpha+\beta_1age+\beta_2female+\beta_3bachelor+\beta_4age^2+e
\]

```{r}
reg4=lm(log(ahe)~age+female+bachelor+I(age^2),data=data)
summary(reg4)
```

* Result: After adding the quadratic term in the function, case is also different. If $Age$ increases from $x$ to $x+1$, then predicted increase in $\ln(AHE)$ is $(0.0814+0.00091*(x^2-(x+1)^2))=0.08049-0.00182*x$. This means that average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by $(0.08049-0.00182*x)*100$%.

## Comparison
After using different regression functions, we can compare which is better. 

* Compare $reg2$ with $reg3$, the regressions differ in their choice of one of the regressors. They can be compared on the basis of $\bar{R^2}$: $reg3$ has a higher $\bar{R^2}$, so it's better.

* Compare $reg2$ with $reg4$, $reg4$ adds another variable $Age^2$. The coefficient on $Age^2$ is not statistically significant and the estimated coefficient is very close to zero. This suggests that $reg2$ is better.

* Compare $reg3$ with $reg4$, the regressions differ in their choice of the regressors: $\ln(Age)$ in $reg3$ and $Age$ and $Age^2$ in $reg4$. They can also be compared on the basis of $\bar{R^2}$: $reg3$ has a higher $\bar{R^2}$, so it's better.

## Conclusion
In this empirical case, after comparison, it seems that $reg3$:the log-log regression function is the best one among them. The result of it can be more reliable. If $Age$ increases from $x$ to $x+1$, the average hourly earnings are predicted to increase by $0.804*(\ln(x+1)-\ln(x))*100$%.
